Despite increasing numbers of refugee women-at-risk being resettled and their potential vulnerability, there exists no empirical research into the psychiatric health of this unique subgroup with which to guide policy and practice. This research aimed to investigate psychiatric symptom status of a sample of refugee women-at-risk recently resettled in Australia, as well as factors contributing to symptoms of trauma, anxiety, depression, and somatization. The level of psychiatric symptomatology is compared to reference groups of women from Sudan and Burma, who entered Australia under the Humanitarian Entry Programme, and who did not meet criteria as women-at-risk.
BackgroundAssessing functioning and disability among individuals with mental and behavioral health disorders has historically relied on deriving accurate psychiatric diagnoses and assessing symptoms. However, growing empirical evidence suggests that this approach is inadequate to determine real world performance, particularly with respect to work.ObjectiveWe examined a performance-based approach to the assessment of work functioning and its relationship to mental and behavioral health status.MethodsA cross-sectional study was conducted at two mental health programs. Trained employment providers conducted performance-based assessments of work function and ratings of mental and behavioral health while study participants self-reported their mental/behavioral health functioning. We hypothesized that participant and provider ratings of mental/behavioral health would be at moderately correlated and with performance-based assessments of work function.ResultsWe found no significant correlation between participants' self-report of their mental and behavioral health and performance-based assessments of work. Employment providers' ratings of participants' mental/behavioral health were moderately correlated with performance-based measures of work. Finally, we found low concordance between employment providers and study participants' with respect to ratings of their mental/behavioral health.ConclusionsContrary to our hypotheses, ratings of mental/behavioral health were only moderately correlated to performance-based measures of work. Results confirm earlier research suggesting that it is difficult to predict work performance from participants' self-reports of their mental/behavioral health alone. Performance-based assessments of work capacity as well as ratings of mental and behavioral health may both be needed for a more complete and complimentary picture of the ability of individuals with mental and behavioral health disorders to function in the work place.
